So before we get to analyzing the statistical properties of the data,
we should see what schema information about the dataset is available.
In this next section,
we'll walk through a dataset that we will use for this course to
give you a more connected step-by-step view on analyzing a dataset.
For this lesson and exercise,
we will use this heart disease dataset hosted by
the University of California Irvine that was
done by various institutions around the world.
It is a clinical dataset and we will use it to review some fundamentals,
but it is not representative of
the more common EHR records that we will focus on for this course.
So if you go down on the page,
you will see that the original dataset had 76 attributes or features.
However, we will only use a subset of 14 of them listed here.
Now we will go into a notebook and take a look at the schema.
We'll actually go into more detail later,
but I wanted to have you look at the schema that we cleaned up from the original page.
So here are the schema.
A lot of the features are a bit self-explanatory,
but some of them you might want to review the descriptions again.
Take a look at the schema for this dataset and
think about what might be important to analyze further.
What do you think is a feature that is the predictor attribute?
So if we're predicting heart disease,
it would be the last feature.
What is an example of a categorical feature?
Just to review, a categorical feature is something that has
discrete values and is not continuous, but could have order.
So an example of one could be sex in this dataset.
Sex can either have two discrete values,
so either one for male or zero for female.
So what is an example of a continuous feature in this dataset?
A continuous numerical feature for this dataset could be age.
This may have been a review for many of you but it's
always good to reiterate key steps in the process.
As you will realize later,
the complexity really compounds itself when you start adding the code sets and levels.
Gaining a good understanding of the schema and data is critical.
So just to review while looking at the schema,
a few key things to look for are,
the predictor label attribute field that you're considering for your model,
possible categorical and numerical features, and lastly,
it is important to work with domain experts and
SMEs that may know the data and domain much deeper than you.
EHR data can have a wide variety and number of fields,
and working with domain experts to find which fields is critical.